---
author: Teri Elniski
comments: true
date: 2012-10-15 15:00:25+00:00
layout: post
slug: ocs2
title: Cloudscaling to Deliver First Production-Grade Elastic Cloud Infrastructure
  System Based on OpenStack
wordpress_id: 5271
old_categories:
- Press Releases
---

_**Open Cloud System 2.0 raises the bar for production-grade elastic cloud infrastructure and is accompanied by Cloudscaling’s world-class 24x7 operational support.**_

SAN FRANCISCO, October 15, 2012 — Cloudscaling, the leading elastic cloud infrastructure company, plans to unveil a major upgrade of its Open Cloud System (OCS) at the [OpenStack Summit](http://www.openstack.org/summit/san-diego-2012/) this week in San Diego. Version 2.0 of OCS will add unique features and production-grade capabilities previously unavailable in any OpenStack-based cloud solution.

Version 2.0 of OCS will be the first elastic cloud solution delivering the agility, performance and economic benefits of leading public cloud providers, but deployable in the customer’s datacenter and under their IT team’s control.

Additionally, OCS 2.0 will be the first private cloud solution to deliver critical IT management and cloud operations-focused enhancements that transform [OpenStack](http://openstack.org) from a technology component into a complete production-grade, scale-engineered, cloud infrastructure system. Key capabilities include on-demand compute, block storage, object storage, networking, scale-out edge, core, and block networking services, private to public cloud integration options, advanced security features, intelligent resource scheduling, cloud topology management, and modular hardware reference designs that speed time to deployment and increase reliability.

**Elastic Cloud:**
**New Infrastructure for New Dynamic Applications **
Elastic cloud refers to infrastructure that is optimized to support new, dynamic applications such as mobile, web, big data, software/platform-as-a-service and others that can take advantage of on-demand compute, storage and networking. Dynamic applications are self-managing, resilient to failure and designed to take advantage of on-demand scale-out capabilities in elastic clouds.

Elastic clouds are open, flexible and deliver exceptional economics for not only deploying and managing cloud applications, but also efficiently scaling them. Elastic clouds move beyond complex enterprise virtualization (such as VMware-powered infrastructure) to deliver agile infrastructure ideally suited to the demands and requirements of dynamic cloud applications. The most widely known examples of elastic clouds are public providers such as Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Google Compute Engine (GCE).

**OCS:**
**The First Private Elastic Cloud Solution**
OCS is the first elastic cloud solution that brings the benefits of elastic public clouds into the customer’s datacenter. Until now, customers building dynamic cloud applications have had to either move entirely to an elastic public cloud provider or attempt to build their own infrastructure at great expense and complexity. With OCS, customers will for the first time have a production-grade private elastic cloud infrastructure on which to deploy and manage their dynamic cloud applications.

**Federation to Public Clouds:**
**Choice About Where to Run Dynamic Applications**
Beyond delivering the benefits of elastic public cloud as a private cloud solution, OCS provides for the first time powerful federation capabilities that allow customers to manage dynamic cloud applications across their private elastic cloud and supported public cloud services such as AWS and GCE.

Federation between private and public clouds is managed via the new OCS Cloud Application Manager. This optional advanced feature module gives customers the ability to manage dynamic cloud applications across private, public and hybrid cloud deployments via a single control system.

**Production-Grade Capabilities**
OCS 2.0 will add unique features and production-grade capabilities previously unavailable in any OpenStack-based cloud solution. Production grade refers to the ability of a cloud system to support application workloads in demanding, operational environments that require high up-time and critical cloud operations features. This is in contrast to other, simple OpenStack deployments, which are better suited for non-production workloads such as development and testing.

Key characteristics of a production-grade cloud architecture include performance, availability, security and maintainability.

**Managed OpenStack Innovation**
Cloudscaling supports its customers by integrating official OpenStack releases into an overall cloud infrastructure system to increase reliability and smoothly manage upgrades in production environments. Cloudscaling is deeply involved in contributing to the open source community-powered innovation of the OpenStack project. Cloudscaling’s commitment is to bring these innovations to our customers in an integrated, tested and supported production-grade cloud infrastructure solution.

**Pioneer and Advocate in the OpenStack Community**
Cloudscaling was one of the founding community members and an early, public supporter of OpenStack’s July 2010 launch. Cloudscaling is a charter gold corporate sponsor of the Foundation, and company co-founder Randy Bias was elected to the Foundation board upon its formation in August 2012. Cloudscaling is a top-ten contributor of code to the project, including the ZeroMQ messaging feature and RPC abstraction layer found in Folsom, as well as security improvements, improvements to the Horizon user interface and frequent code reviews.

“Enterprises are telling us that they want private elastic cloud infrastructure that can go all the way into production, but they also want the support of an active open source community. And, they don’t want to risk the capital and thousands of man hours required to build their own from raw OpenStack technology,” said Michael Grant, CEO of Cloudscaling. “OCS 2.0 is our response to that need, and for the first time all of these customer pain points are answered in a single product.”

The roadmap for the first version of OCS was announced in February and was initially deployed in production environments for customers over the summer. Version 2.0 is scheduled for availability by the end of this year. The 2.0 release will be open source licensed, and Cloudscaling’s software development lifecycle will be open sourced at the time of its availability. Advanced Feature Modules beyond the OCS 2.0 system core will be available under separate commercial licenses.

**About Cloudscaling**
[Cloudscaling](http://cloudscaling.com/) is the leading elastic cloud infrastructure company. Its Open Cloud System is the most reliable, scalable and production-grade solution available for building elastic clouds powered by OpenStack technology. Open Cloud System delivers the agility, performance and economic benefits of leading public cloud providers, but deployable in the customer’s datacenter and under their IT team’s control. Cloudscaling is backed by[ Trinity Ventures](http://www.trinityventures.com/) and is headquartered in San Francisco.


###
