---
title: 'Cloudscaling Nominated by Telecom Council of Silicon Valley for  Award as Best Fixed Telecom Opportunity'
link: http://cloudscaling.com/blog/press-releases/cloudscaling-nominated-by-telecom-council-of-silicon-valley-for-award-as-best-fixed-telecom-opportunity/
author: Teri Elniski
description: 
post_id: 4128
created: 2012/08/13 08:35:12
created_gmt: 2012/08/13 15:35:12
comment_status: open
post_name: cloudscaling-nominated-by-telecom-council-of-silicon-valley-for-award-as-best-fixed-telecom-opportunity
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
category: press-releases
---

# Cloudscaling Nominated by Telecom Council of Silicon Valley for  Award as Best Fixed Telecom Opportunity

SAN FRANCISCO, August 13, 2012 — Three months after becoming the first cloud infrastructure solution provider to join the Telecom Council of Silicon Valley (TCSV), Cloudscaling has been nominated by the organization for its annual SPIFFY awards. The[ SPIFFY Awards](http://telecomcouncil.cvent.com/events/tc3-telecom-council-carrier-connections/custom-22-86328978b9b6487b9f334490c4d968cb.aspx) is an annual ceremony that recognizes the best telecom startups from the year prior. SPIFFY is an acronym that loosely reflects the TCSV’s Service Provider Forum (SPiF). In 2011, SPiF (and the wider TCSV leadership) reviewed more than 200 young companies bringing telecom innovations to market. By simply being invited to SPiF, startups are already filtered as young companies that have the ideas, relevance and traction that most appeal to communication service providers from around the globe. Award categories include innovation, creativity, emergent entrepreneurship and competitive excellence. Cloudscaling is nominated in the category of Core Award for Best Fixed Telecom Opportunity. This award recognizes the best investment opportunity within the fixed telecom sector demonstrated at SPiF events in the past two years. During that period, Cloudscaling designed and built clouds based on[ OpenStack](http://www.openstack.org/) and other technologies for several of the world’s largest carriers and service providers. These include KT (formerly Korea Telecom), Internap and other large service providers. "We’re the first open cloud computing solution provider to join the Telecom Council,” said David Bernstein, vice president of carrier strategy for Cloudscaling. “We build production-scale, open cloud infrastructure for the largest carriers who want to support subscriber-facing applications to support a rapidly growing appetite for mobile, machine to machine and other segments that carriers are uniquely positioned to exploit. Being nominated for the SPIFFY was an honor that we were humbled to receive.” The mission of TCSV is to facilitate relationships between carriers and companies delivering innovative technologies to the industry. Founded in 2000, the Council has produced hundreds of conferences, meetups, forums, debriefing sessions and technology showcases. More than 100 companies are members of the Council, including the largest names in the telecom industry. Liz Kerton, president of the Telecom Council of Silicon Valley, said, "Cloudscaling is a great example of the kinds of innovators our organization was designed to bring to the table. Cloud computing is a high interest topic among our wireline, MSO, and mobile carrier communities, and the Council provides a forum to connect them to innovative companies. At the SPIFFYs, we honor the best of the best, so we are proud to add Cloudscaling to the list of successful telecom startups who have filtered through the Council to meet potential partners.” About Cloudscaling [Cloudscaling](http://www.cloudscaling.com/) is the leading elastic infrastructure cloud software and systems company delivering on-premise, production-grade, OpenStack-powered solutions. Cloudscaling’s products and services target the needs of agile application development and IT infrastructure teams seeking faster time to market and scale-out infrastructure for a new generation of elastic cloud applications. Cloudscaling’s Open Cloud System delivers the agility, performance, and cost benefits of public cloud infrastructure such as Amazon Web Services, but deployable in the customer’s datacenter and under the IT team’s control. Cloudscaling has more production OpenStack experience than any other company, including successful deployments at KT (formerly Korea Telecom), Internap and others. The Cloudscaling team are industry veterans who have designed and deployed large-scale cloud infrastructure for cloud pioneers such as AWS, NASA, GoGrid, RightScale and eBay. Cloudscaling is backed by Trinity Ventures and is headquartered in San Francisco. About the Telecom Council of Silicon Valley The[ Telecom Council of Silicon Valley](http://www.telecomcouncil.com/home.php) connects companies and individuals involved in the region's communications technology industry with one another for business development, collaboration, and education. Using our network, tools, framework and meetings to bring together the local telecom industry's critical mass of businesses, research, ideas, capital, and human expertise – the Council is a hub for telecom professionals. ### Media Contact: Robert Cathey robert@cloudscaling.com 865-386-6118 @robertcathey