---
title: 'Enterprise vs. Cloud Storage'
link: http://cloudscaling.com/?p=2326
author: randybias
description: 
post_id: 2326
created: 2011/10/31 10:25:54
created_gmt: 
comment_status: open
post_name: 
status: draft
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Enterprise vs. Cloud Storage

I caused a minor crap storm on The Twitter this morning when I called people's baby ugly.  Basically, I suggested that FiberChannel was a dead technology in the same vein as FDDI.  Or ATM, TokenRing, or IPX/SPX for that matter.  Except, we aren't talking about babies.  We're talking about technology and technology dies.  It runs through cycles and as I've said countless times we are deep in the middle of a fundamental and transformative shift right now that goes to the heart of informational technology (IT). During this small twitstorm, I realized I hadn't really ever provided a view into how this affects storage at a high level, so I thought I would briefly. Storage Tiers The storage industry is quite interesting.  For a very long time now they have had a clean taxonomy and way of thinking about storage in 'tiers', where each tier has a fairly obvious use case and characteristics.  Below is a chart roughly showing these three tiers.  Please note that some vendors have more than three tiers or qualify the tiers differently, but I think this captures the rough consensus. [ DIAGRAM ] If you talk to an enterprise storage team or an enterprise storage vendor they will grok it when you use the terms 'Tier-1 storage'. With cloud computing, I don't think the tiers go away, but they do morph. Cloud Storage Tiering Cloud storage tiers are similar to enterprise storage tiers in form and function, but most of the underlying technology is completely different: [ DIAGRAM ] In fact, using AWS as the model, we know that they use their own proprietary technology, not SANS for EBS.  There are good reasons for this that I can't go into in this article, but suffice it to say that the main driver is cost.  Besides, delivering SAN speeds for cheap is easy now. Let's take a brief look at these tiers Tier-1: Elastic Block Storage (EBS) Taking aside the technology for EBS for now, what's striking is that AWS is delivering on-demand persistent LUNs at scale for < $.10/GB/month with their typical 50-70% margin packed in there.  You can't even come close to this using traditional FiberChannel SAN technology.  In fact, I've heard shocking numbers in the $10-15/GB/month range.  I'm reminded of a conversation I had with one of the major disk drive manufacturers that went something like this: "We sell EMC a drive for $80, they put in a caddy, and sell it back to us for $800 in a VMAX" Sorry folks, but that business model is *over*. EBS type technology is the future for large scale IaaS clouds.  It may be delivered using a variety of mechanisms but it sure as heck won't be on Fiber Channel SAN, either inside the enterprise or out.  Not at a 10x cost differential. Tier-2: DAS