---
title: 'Can Small Cloud Providers Survive?'
link: http://cloudscaling.com/?p=331
author: su
description: 
post_id: 331
created: 2009/05/25 23:35:58
created_gmt: 
comment_status: open
post_name: 
status: draft
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Can Small Cloud Providers Survive?

Given that the cloud computing market is in it's relative infancy can smaller cloud providers survive after the 'big boys' show up?  This is a particularly important question depending on where you sit in the Cloud Pyramid.  The further down you are the more pressure there will be from commodity players like Amazon Web Services, Google, and new entrants like AT&T.  Infrastructure clouds (aka 'IaaS'), in particular, are going to face extreme pressure and from two directions. Read on for more.  **Commodity Service Clouds** Amazon and Google, at their hearts are simply web services.  Their very DNA leads them to deliver a suite of individual services that can be consumed by end-users and developers alike.  These web-based services ('web services') [1] are meant to be consumed a la carte with each a product in it's own right. Looking at Amazon Web Services carefully, we see that it is actually a blend of both 'platform' and 'infrastructure' in the Cloud Pyramid: 

  * Flexible Payment Services (platform service for payment processing)
  * SimpleDB (platform service providing distributed database functionality)
  * Elastic Compute Cloud, EC2 (on-demand servers)
  * Simple Storage Service, S3 (on-demand storage)
Consider Google.  They provide mail, online word processing and spreadsheets, and more at the 'application' layer of the Cloud Pyramid.  More recently their AppEngine offering provides a way to host Java or Ruby apps at the 'platform' layer.  Soon, if the rumors are correct (and it's hard to see why they wouldn't be), they will provide on-demand storage like AWS's S3 at the 'infrastructure' layer. To borrow from Alistair Croll, Amazon and Google are a different breed of cloud called a 'service cloud'.  Service clouds are not currently provided for in the Cloud Pyramid (time for an update Michael). The most notable aspect of service clouds, aside from their web service nature, is that they are being developed and delivered from the large commodity web players like Amazon, Google, and Microsoft. **Hosting 2.0 (IaaS) Providers** On the other side of the spectrum from service clouds that provide infrastructure are all of the Hosting 2.0 folks who provide Infrastructure-as-a-Service  (IaaS):  GoGrid, RackSpace, FlexiScale, Savvis, ElasticHosts, and Terremark to name just a few.  These folks are largely delivering a single product packaged as an on-demand datacenter (some times called 'virtual datacenter', 'virtual private datacenter', or 'cloudcenter'). The Hosting 2.0 folks are mostly comprised of forward thinking folks who saw that the service cloud model pioneered by Amazon created a direct threat to their existing business models.  In fact, I have it on good authority that large hosting providers such as Peer1 are seeing a fairly significant impact to their businesses at the low-end Virtual Private Server (VPS) level.  I expect that as service clouds and IaaS clouds mature the pressure will increase dramatically. What IaaS providers have is infrastructure and a good knowledge of the marketplace, but what they are missing is the DNA required to become a service cloud.  In the case of Amazon or Google, they are simply continuing down a path they already started, whereas most IaaS providers would need to create whole need product lines to compete as service clouds. **Where Does a Small Cloud Fit?** I expect IaaS providers and service clouds to 'meet in the middle' and there won't be much room to maneuver for smaller cloud providers at that time.  It will be very similar to the late 90s when many smaller Internet Service Providers (ISPs) were either run out of business or snatched up by bigger players.  Only a very small minority were able to play the ISP game at scale.  The same will happen here. Not sure?  I also have it on good authority that VMware is actively courting big name telecom companies, all of whom want in on this game.  AT&T, Deutsche Telecom, British Telecom, and many more are moving into this space. From the software direction, not only is VMware working on a new software product (vCloud) to enable large cloud providers, but also Citrix with it's CloudCenter, VMops, and others.  Eventually Hosting 2.0 will be as simple as installing cPanel on a server, making differentiation hard. Small cloud providers can't compete effectively on price over the long run.  _Which means you need a strategy to stay relevant and position yourself well within the competitive landscape._ **Developing A Strategy** First, pick a target market and relentlessly drive towards being feature complete and providing the kind of _user experience_ that meets their needs.  Second, look towards a service cloud future.  What kinds of individual services can you begin to establish now that serve your target market particularly well?  Big data processing with Hadoop?  Payment gateways?  Security services?  You can't compete with Amazon or Google in this regard, but you can provide a smaller number of well targeted services that complement your primary offering. Finally, get engaged with your user base, provide the best service possible, and stay focused.  Don't try to do too much at once.   

* * *

[1]  These services wind up looking very similar to an Enterprise Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA), at least at a high level; I have also occasionally referred to them as a Cloud-Oriented Architecture, which is slightly more accurate.