---
title: 'Enterprise Cloud Adoption — What Intel Can Teach Us'
link: http://cloudscaling.com/?p=332
author: randybias
description: 
post_id: 332
created: 2009/06/06 00:14:19
created_gmt: 
comment_status: closed
post_name: 
status: draft
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Enterprise Cloud Adoption — What Intel Can Teach Us

The Intel IT group recently did me a favor and produced a remarkable whitepaper title _[Developing an Enterprise Cloud Computing Strategy](http://download.intel.com/it/pdf/320566.pdf)_.  I was about to start work on a similar blog posting when I found this particular paper.  Apparently it's been available since January, but it slipped my notice.  Given how comprehensive this paper is, it's much better that I start from the baseline they laid out. In this post I'm going to take a critical look at those parts of the whitepaper that I feel need clarification or where I believe that the Intel folks overlooked something important.  I will also highlight particular areas that I feel are important for clouds and cloud solution providers to understand.  Finally, I'll sum up by bringing it all together and drawing some conclusions that I think everyone needs to understand. _FAIR WARNING_: This is going to be a long one.  **Introduction** It's easiest to simply take the Intel whitepaper in the same order it's presented.  I'll work through each content area before concluding with my summary.  You can read the original whitepaper in full, but I'll cover enough of the original material that it's unnecessary to do so in order to derive value from this posting. **Executive Summary** Again, Intel's IT department clearly understands cloud well and in their executive summary lay out a compelling story that despite the near term risks, relative immaturity of the market, and lack of standards there is immediate value that can be derived from adopting cloud computing in the short term.  The Intel cloud strategy, which should make sense for most large enterprises, is to adopt Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) opportunistically and to 'grow the cloud from the inside out' for Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS).  This means adopting internal cloud (aka 'private cloud' at times) technologies now, gaining more experience, and moving towards a model where they can selectively use internal, external, or a mix of cloud computing technologies as needed.  They claim two key drivers: improved flexibility/agility and lower costs. **Background** Intel begins by laying out two primary questions they want to answer that, again, should be the same for most enterprise businesses: 

  1. Which services move to cloud computing and when?
  2. How do we map a path to cloud computing from our current environment?
Intel then offers up their definition of cloud computing and a suggested taxonomy.  Given how often these kinds of definitions have been hashed and re-hashed I'm going to avoid spending too much time on this, but there were two parts of their definition and taxonomy attempt that I think missed the mark. First, Intel offers the following definition: 

> We define cloud computing as a computing paradigm where services and data reside in shared resources in scalable data centers, and those services and data are accessible by any authenticated device over the Internet.

It's a minor quibble, but I don't think there is anything inherent in cloud computing that requires access over the public Internet.  Cloud providers like GoGrid and RackSpace already offer point-to-point circuits into their datacenters and hybrid cloud computing solutions.  Although it seems like a minor point to make, many large enterprises strongly prefer this kind of connectivity solution rather than a VPN or similar.  It solves a number of security, privacy, and performance issues quite conveniently and cost-effectively.  We saw these kinds of requests from very large enterprises on a regular basis and you can expect to see this as a common feature in many cloud offerings in the future. Second, Intel provides the traditional 3-tier cloud taxonomy we're all familiar with: 

  * Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)
  * Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)
  * Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS)
They provide a definition for each, including PaaS: 

> Platforms that can be used to deploy applications provided by customers or partners of the PaaS provider.

There is clearly a big disconnect with Intel's perception of PaaS from the rest of the community.  More importantly, other than this very short definition Intel doesn't cover PaaS at all in their strategy, yet over the long term there may be much more value for PaaS adoption in the enterprise than IaaS.  My guess is that the IT orientation of the original authors may have created a blind spot here. With regards to PaaS, I'm not going to rehash definitions, but I have a very simple way I think about PaaS.  Platform-as-a-Service offerings are 'load-your-code-and-go' systems.  Google's AppEngine being the canonical example here, but Microsoft Azure, Aptana, EngineYard, and Heroku also come to mind.  PaaS provides tremendous benefits to developers.  After all, while IaaS might speed delivery of servers, storage, and network to a developer, it in no way increases operational agility in configuring and deploying applications.  It's simply not enough to deliver software in virtual machines.  You need an entire operational framework in order to deploy real web apps, even in secondary environments like QA and development.  Most PaaS services or software are essentially an operational framework on top of scalable infrastructure, either internal or external.  PaaS is an important part of any cloud strategy that intends to reduce operational expenses, increase agility, and reduce provisioning/procurement times. **Expected Benefits and Risks** This section of the Intel whitepaper highlights where most large enterprises are at today in their thinking on cloud computing.  They see significant benefits from cloud computing that enable: 

  * Agility
  * Adaptability
  * Flexibility
  * Cost Savings
But there are also considerable risks around: 
  * Security
  * Privacy
  * Enterprise Support
  * Service Maturity
  * ROI
_Security & Privacy_ Concerns around security and privacy are prudent and well-intentioned, but certainly no different than the same concerns for any kind of outsourcing.  These issues are already well understood and have solutions that any large IT department is prepared to implement.  Intel tells us as much when the talk somewhat obliquely about using audits to ensure standards and government regulatory compliance.  Some clouds like GoGrid and Terremark already provide SAS70 Type II audits. _Enterprise Support & Service Maturity_ Clearly enterprise support in the public cloud space has been badly lacking and there is a ways to go in terms of maturity; however, many new entrants such as Savvis, Terremark, and AT&T have a deep understanding of enterprise needs and are delivering cloud platforms that have the kinds of features, uptime, features, and SLAs that are required by IT departments like Intel's. More importantly, it's very clear that VMware, the gold standard in enterprise datacenter virtualization, is deeply involved with a wide variety of up and coming providers with strong enterprise experience and clientele.  Beyond the now, VMware's vCloud initiative is clearly shaping up to be a 'real deal' kind of solution to cloud computing.  Unlike the somewhat crippled VMware Virtual Center management system, vCloud is poised to deliver very similar capabilities to today's public clouds coupled with the kinds of enterprise capabilities the Intel IT team says are missing today.  vCloud will be deployed in both internal and external clouds potentially bringing major integration benefits as well. VMware isn't the only one here either.  Other IaaS software stacks like EUCALYPTUS are in motion working to solve the same problems. _Return on Investment (ROI) Concerns_