---
title: 'Manifest Disruption, Part Deux: More from Moore'
link: http://cloudscaling.com/?p=5357
author: randybias
description: 
post_id: 5357
created: 2012/10/23 10:15:58
created_gmt: 
comment_status: open
post_name: 
status: draft
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Manifest Disruption, Part Deux: More from Moore

What's more awesome than writing a critique of one of your business hero's?  When that same hero writes back.  Geoffrey Moore, kindly, took the time to put together a cogent and quite genteel [response](https://plus.google.com/u/0/104991205080744824165/posts/hA2agDsRUup) to my [previous posting](https://www.cloudscaling.com/blog/cloud-computing/a-response-to-geoffrey-moore-manifest-disruption/) "taking [him] to the woodshed."  It almost feels like a sin to respond again, but as Geoff says, "what fun is it to just passively agree and move on?"

I strongly recommend reading Geoff's response in full.  It's chock full of great insights. I felt like I needed to cover a few key items though.

First though, I'd like to cover his point #2 that seemingly puts Geoff and Clayton Christensen on "one side of the board" and myself on the other.  That's not exactly the way I see it.  I think we're all playing the same game, which is to help businesses succeed at crossing the chasm and managing disruptive change.  Our methods; however, differ.  As one of the disruptors, I'm trying to bring products to market that allow businesses to transition when they might otherwise fail.  Geoff and Clayton, however, are operating more in an advisory and educational capacity with those leaning back.  I like to think I lead from example where they lead from a place of wisdom and pragmatic advice regarding adoption.

We're both right from our particular perspectives, however, what's important is the discussion, which may hopefully elucidate the marketplace in general.

So let's get to that discussion . . .

**Virtualized Datacenters as a Response to Cloud**

Geoff makes a key point that CIOs need a minimum response to cloud and virtualization is the starting point.  Unfortunately, I think it's a path to false success.  There have been a spate of CIOs "declaring victory early" by simply buying a VCE VBlock and running VMware on top of it.  While it may have allowed those particular CIOs to move on to their next role with a feather in their cap, I don't think it has materially improved the lot of the business they are responsible for.  As you know, [virtualization is not cloud computing](http://www.google.com/search?q=cloud+computing+is+not+virtualization&oq=cloud+computing+is+not+virtualization&sugexp=chrome,mod=0&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8) in the same way that outsourcing is not cloud computing.

I think Geoff's point however, is valid.  There *is* a minimum "conservative" response to cloud, but virtualization isn't it.  Neither is "everything-as-a-Service".  Probably the absolute minimum response to cloud is to adopt large scale public providers such as Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Google Compute Engine (GCE) in some fashion.  To empower that from the office of the CIO is probably the most powerful, impacting, and conservative response possible.

I say this because in the field we're seeing enterprises who deploy virtualization inside their datacenter and declare victory fail to stem the tide of "[shadow IT](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shadow_IT)" built and deployed on external public clouds without sanction.  We also see them fail to help educate their business and IT staff in the fundamental disruption.  From my perspective, this is the base minimum required to have any kind of response to cloud.

Mobile Applications & The Super Platforms

Again, Geoff rightly points out that many of the listed cloud applications are inherently more urgent than others.  He points to mobile applications and the need for the CIO to respond.  This is not only true, but it deeply underscores my point above about the minimum response required to successfully respond to cloud.

Mobile applications are fundamentally different than those that have come before.  These applications plug into "super-platforms" such as iOS, Facebook, and Android.  I talked about this before on [The Critical Path](http://www.asymco.com/2011/11/24/5by5-the-critical-path-14-the-super-platform-ecosystem/) with Horace Dediu, who is probably the world's foremost analyst on all things mobile.

To summarize, the key difference is that these mobile applications have the possibility to scale from 100s of users to millions or even 100s of millions of users almost literally overnight.  As the customers of large businesses move from passive broadcast mediums to channels of engagement on super-platforms, complex, interactions with massive audiences become the norm.  Many or most mobile applications talk to "the cloud", which is typically an "API in the sky".  These backend apps that support the mobile applications at the network edge must be developed differently in order to scale.

In fact, most, if not all, of these apps have typically been developed on large public cloud providers like AWS Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) because existing enterprise datacenters can't support the rapid horizontal scaling of new mobile applications.

This then, creates the need for a minimum response from CIOs that embraces large public cloud providers such as AWS while supporting developers and the line of business who are trying new ways of customer engagement on massive new platforms.  It's not easy supporting 100s of a millions of new app customers and the infrastructure simply can't be in your way since you'll be busy fighting your own application architecture more than anything else.  Just ask Netflix.

Netflix and AWS

A brief aside on Netflix and AWS.  Geoff claims that Netflix will have to "rethink" it's AWS relationship.  As you know, I've been relatively close to Adrian Cockcroft, their chief cloud architect, and no such re-evaluation is in the cards as far as I am aware.  To provide some perspective, here's a [video](http://vimeo.com/32951599) from an interview with Adrian last November.  Since that time, Netflix has entered the European and Latin American markets using AWS as a vehicle.

Netflix opened two huge new markets to them without signing long term datacenter contracts, purchasing capital equipment, or putting boots on the ground.  Think about that for just a moment.  This is disruption at work.  Netflix is getting extreme leverage from AWS for it's content licensing agreements.  Per the interview with Adrian, the fundamental cost structure for Netflix is weighted heavily towards the cost of these content licensing deals, not the cost of AWS.  Their ability to use AWS to access new markets increases their total addressable market with very low risk, creating new opportunities that were otherwise impossible.  Netflix will be on AWS for the foreseeable future as the advantages greatly outweigh any potential competitive situation.

**What is the Time Horizon?**

As Geoff points out, the key concern here is "over some period of time."  When does cloud happen, how much time do the disrupted have to respond, and what is the impact of responding late?  No one can predict the future; however much we might wish otherwise. I don't have a magic formula that CIOs can use to understand what they are looking at, but I can notice some things from on the ground.

What we're seeing in the field is that, like the early adoption of Salesforce.com, the line of business owners and developers are leading the cloud charge.  CIOs and the IT infrastructure teams seem to have largely been left behind, regardless of the deployment of virtualized data centers.  This is because virtualized datacenters aren't competitive with public cloud solutions.  They don't leverage the lessons learned from the Internet-scale players, instead leveraging the "lessons espoused" by the legacy enterprise vendors, who are the ones actually being disrupted.  The blind leading the blind if you will.