---
title: 'SaaS is NOT Cloud Computing'
link: http://cloudscaling.com/?p=834
author: randybias
description: 
post_id: 834
created: 2009/12/01 00:40:46
created_gmt: 2009/12/01 08:40:46
comment_status: open
post_name: 
status: draft
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# SaaS is NOT Cloud Computing

I can hear the cloud pundits trashing now. Someone's beloved sacred cow is no longer part of the party. Or is it? I think there is an important distinction to draw between cloud and cloud computing in a manner that is similar to the difference between electricity and a toaster. Let me explain. In our world cloud is more easily recognized as an operational model change. Or a service delivery change. It's how IT is becoming a new enabler for businesses and people. Bu it's not a utility. Cloud computing is the utility. Does anyone believe that a toaster is a utility like your phone or power? No. The truth that not many want to face is that there is a fundamental difference in between the "applications" of a utility and the utility itself. The national power system and the local "platform" you use in your building to convert to the types of power you need are an electrical infrastructure. In much the same way the platforms and infrastructure layers of cloud are the "data infrastructure" of your business and the "applications" at the Software layer are consumers and manipulators of this data. Once you come to this conclusion with me then understanding cloud and cloud computing gets a lot easier. Let me give you some examples. A Paradigm Shift Perhaps an overused word, paradigm is spot on here. Before "cloud" was the current dominant IT delivery model: client-server computing. Before client-server was mainframe. One way to see "cloud" is that it is simply an evolution from client-server. A greater opening, democratization, and commoditization of how IT is delivered to both consumers and business people. Check out this chart: [FOO] [EXPLAIN] With this model, defining "cloud" becomes easy: [DEFINITION] [talk to reducing friction] Now pretty much everything you think of as "cloud" today will pass this "sniff test". Putting the Utility in Cloud Now we come to the crux. Part of the important change happening here is that IT is becoming a utility as Nick Carr predicted in The Big Switch and Does IT Matter? This is a huge part of what is empowering "cloud" and that means it is also empowering SaaS. But the conversation about utilitizing IT is NOT the same as the general cloud conversation and never will be. It's more niche ultimately. Do you care how electricity is delivered to your home today? Other than that it meets a certain SLA and costs a certain amount? No. You shouldn't need to. So the cloud computing conversation is a smaller and smaller conversation with fewer and fewer people over time. It's one that is focused on making itself invisible. You can't enable low friction self-service if people see you. The Cloud (IT) Stack [DIAGRAM] Explain Conclusion We need to separate these two conversations for the purpose of clarity. Different standards apply. Different constituencies apply. Start using my distinctions and stop calling SaaS cloud computing.