---
title: 'Cloud Futures Pt. 2: Commodity Clouds'
link: http://cloudscaling.com/blog/cloud-computing/cloud-futures-pt-2-commodity-clouds/
author: randybias
description: 
post_id: 2412
created: 2009/06/05 09:30:44
created_gmt: 2009/06/05 16:30:44
comment_status: open
post_name: cloud-futures-pt-2-commodity-clouds
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Cloud Futures Pt. 2: Commodity Clouds

Ever wonder where the other big guys are in the cloud computing space?  If Google, Amazon, and Microsoft are general purpose [service clouds](/blog/cloud-computing/cloud-futures-pt-1-service-clouds) set to dominate as ecosystem plays, then what about those big companies that can't deliver an ecosystem, but have the size to play ball?  (See [Pt. 1: Service Clouds](http://cloudscaling.com/blog/cloud-computing/cloud-futures-pt-1-service-clouds)).  The answer is they play to win on price. Enter ... _commodity clouds_. **Infrastructure Commodity Clouds** Recently large providers like AT&T [announced their entry](http://www.att.com/gen/press-room?pid=4800&cdvn=news&newsarticleid=26005) into the Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) cloud computing market and some bigcos with a vision, like British Telecom  (BT), even tried to [move early](http://www.3tera.com/News/Press-Releases/Archive/BT-Selects-3Tera-AppLogic.php) building upon [3tera's](http://www.3tera.com) technology to deliver on-demand hosting services.  Even Sun started to get in on the act with their [Sun Cloud](http://cloud.sun.com).  One could argue they led the whole charge with their early on-demand grid service, but by all accounts it wasn't very successful.[1] What's common about these new entrants to the cloud computing space is that generally they are not technology & innovation businesses themselves with the obvious exception of Sun.  In particular, they don't have track records in innovating in the large scale on-demand infrastructure and datacenter space.  But ... they have name brand recognition, buying power, and the ability to price themselves competitively against large incumbents like Amazon and Google. Without the ability to innovate their clouds the primary tool of differentiation for these entrants is pricing.  While I'm sure they would argue with me about this, the fact remains that we're unlikely to see the next [AppEngine](http://appengine.google.com), [SimpleDB](http://aws.amazon.com/simpledb/), or similar from most commodity clouds.[2] An ecosystem play is just not in the cards. **Platform Commodity Clouds** We haven't seen a Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) commodity cloud and it's unlikely we will in the short term given the relative technological complexity of building a scalable shared multi-tenant infrastructure that can host arbitrary code.  If it were easy, then AppEngine and Salesforce/Force.com would have a whole lot of competitors right now. Bottom line is that PaaS doesn't play as a commodity cloud. **Bringing it Back** Again, just a reminder that there are three ways to be a market leader: first, best, and cheapest.  Commodity clouds are focused on being cheapest or, at least, that's primarily where they can play in terms of value.  This doesn't necessarily mean that the list pricing will necessarily **be** cheapest.  Companies like AT&T and BT, at least, will deliver cloud computing as part of their product portfolio which means that businesses that pick them likely will do it because their overall costs or ROI are lower.  They will see cost savings either through discounted pricing when combined with other services or through non-obvious areas like avoiding bandwidth charges.  If you're in an AT&T datacenter, have AT&T connectivity, then data transfer between 'the cloud' and your office will be 'free'. What do you want to be?  Best, first, or cheapest?  If service clouds are best, commodity clouds are cheapest, that only leaves being first.  If you can't be first to the general market (Amazon wrapped that one up) then you need to be first to a smaller focused market.  More on that in [Pt. 3](http://cloudscaling.com/blog/cloud-computing/cloud-futures-pt-3-focused-clouds). \---- [1] Sun doesn't have a reputation for delivering on-demand services as I'm sure even they would admit. [2] You'll notice I haven't mentioned RackSpace.  The jury is still out there.  It seems clear that RackSpace has service cloud ambitions, but it's unknown whether they can execute.  I'm going to lump them in the commodity cloud bucket for now until more time elapses.  Also their current pricing for the Cloud Servers product seems to reinforce the notion that they are largely a commodity play.

## Comments

**[Kristoffer Sheather](#145 "2009-06-06 08:54:06"):** Well, its always nice to be first, in whatever niche you are playing in :)  
  
From the pricing analysis that I've done, Rackspace Mosso Cloud Servers is one of the cheapest commodity cloud offerings out there today, roughly on par with Amazon EC2. The monthly pricing for a Small EC2 instance is $72 / month, though that only includes ephemeral storage. Add elastic block storage and you are looking at $92 / month. Compare that to the Mosso 2GB instance at $87.60 / month. Mosso data transfers are slightly more expensive for outbound traffic at $0.22/GB compared to EC2 at $0.17/GB, inbound is cheaper though at $0.08/GB compared to EC2 at $0.10/GB. GoGrid is free on the inbound data transfers which is a great idea to get the punters uploading loads of data to make use of their storage service :)  
  
According to Rackspaces most recent financial results they have over 40,000 customers on their cloud products: [http://ir.rackspace.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=221673&...](http://ir.rackspace.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=221673&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=1286961&highlight=)

