---
title: 'Cloud Connect 2011'
link: http://cloudscaling.com/blog/cloud-computing/cloud-connect-2011-2/
author: randybias
description: 
post_id: 1673
created: 2011/03/03 02:22:35
created_gmt: 2011/03/03 02:22:35
comment_status: open
post_name: cloud-connect-2011-2
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Cloud Connect 2011

The annual [Cloud Connect](http://www.cloudconnectevent.com/) conference is next week (March 7-10). It’s quickly become one of the most well-produced events in our industry, and we’re honored to participate. In fact, I consider Cloud Connect to be **the** thought leadership event for cloud computing. The 2011 event is the most ambitious yet in the diversity of topics and sheer size. Alistair Croll’s team has put together an excellent series of sessions and participants. Four folks from our leadership team are participating in 12 panels plus a keynote address this year: 

  * Randy Bias, Co-Founder & CTO
  * Andrew Shafer, Vice President of Engineering
  * Francesco Paola, Vice President, Client and Partner Services
  * Paul Guth, Vice President, Technical Operations
Below is a quick lineup of where we’re speaking and when. Come see us in Santa Clara at the Convention Center, and bring the tough questions: you know we like a good debate! **Monday, March 7, 2011**

Cloudy Operations Grand Ballroom E -- 8:59 - 4:30 Andrew Shafer

Cloud Performance Summit: Tools and Techniques for Performance Optimization Grand Ballroom H -- 1:15 - 4:30 Paul Guth

**Tuesday, March 8, 2011 **

Keynote Theater -- 9:45 - 9:55 Randy Bias

Open Source Built the Web - Now It’s Helping to Build the Cloud Grand Ballroom G -- 2:30 - 3:30 Randy Bias

How Does ROI Drive Architecture? Grand Ballroom E -- 3:45 - 4:30 Randy Bias

Platforms & Ecosystems: Birds of a Feather (BOF) Grand Ballroom H -- 6:00 - 7:30 Andrew Shafer

**Wednesday, March 9, 2011**

Private Cloud Conference Virtualization on Demand vs. Private Cloud -- Room 203 11:15 - 12:15 Randy Bias

Real Barriers and Solutions to Implementing Private Cloud Room 203 -- 1:15 - 2:15 Randy Bias and Francesco Paola

Implementing Private Cloud: Open Source vs Everyone Else Room 203 -- 2:30 - 3:30 Randy Bias

Hybrid Cloud Computing: Final Answer or Transitory Architecture? Room 203 -- 3:45 - 4:30 Randy Bias

**Thursday, March 10, 2011 **

Moving from “Dev vs. Ops” to “DevOps” Grand Ballroom E -- 8:15 - 9:15 Andrew Shafer and Paul Guth

Performance and Monitoring Grand Ballroom G -- 9:30 - 10:30 Randy Bias

Ask the Experts: The DevOps Panel Grand Ballroom E -- 10:45 - 11:45 Andrew Shafer and Paul Guth

If you’ve not [registered](http://www.cloudconnectevent.com/registration/) yet, do it today. We’ll see you in Santa Clara.

## Comments

**[BlogFront](#3022 "2011-03-27 19:03:00"):** Hi Randy, BlogFront.org is committed to uphold the quality standards of blogging. We strive to maintain and promote only the most credible blogs in their respective fields. Spam blogs or "splogs" has been a problem for some time now and people are getting confused about which blog to trust. We would like to thank you for maintaining such a reputable blog. We know that it takes time, effort and commitment to keep such a blog and as such, we have added your blog as one of the top Cloud Computing Blogs. You can see your blog listed here: http://blogfront.org/cloud-computing/2 You can also claim your BlogFront Top Blogs badge at http://blogfront.org/badges/cloud-computing Thank you for keeping your blog credible. Let's keep the blog revolution alive! Maria Blanchard BlogFront.org Blog Revolucion

