---
title: 'Open Cloud System 2.5 Now Shipping'
link: http://cloudscaling.com/blog/press-releases/ocs-2-5-ga/
author: Teri Elniski
description: 
post_id: 6688
created: 2013/09/05 09:00:56
created_gmt: 2013/09/05 16:00:56
comment_status: open
post_name: ocs-2-5-ga
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Open Cloud System 2.5 Now Shipping

_**Marks Acceleration of Cloudscaling’s Product Strategy**_

SAN FRANCISCO — September 5, 2013 — Cloudscaling, the leading provider of OpenStack-powered hybrid elastic cloud infrastructure, today announced general availability of Open Cloud System (OCS) 2.5 – the third major release of its flagship product. The new version marks the delivery of the industry’s first commercial solution offering that includes eight of the nine OpenStack projects using the latest stable release, Grizzly.

OCS 2.5 delivers important features to web application providers and enterprises interested in OpenStack but seeking the structure, speed to deployment and 24x7 support from a system solution. These include a virtual private cloud (VPC) network capability, enhancements to block storage, support for OpenStack Grizzly and certified hardware from Juniper Networks, Dell and Cisco.

**OCS Virtual Private Cloud**

Leveraging Juniper Networks Contrail, an open, standards-based network virtualization solution, OCS VPC enables elastic management of IP-based virtual network and security services. OCS VPC accelerates hybrid cloud application deployments by enhancing the efficiency and agility of deploying network resources. VPC lets customers isolate elastic cloud resources without sacrificing the core benefits of elastic clouds.

** **

**// [REGISTER NOW: Fall Webinar Series: Journey to a Hybrid Cloud](http://go.cloudscaling.com/cloudscaling-fall-2013-webinar-series) //**

 

**OCS Block Storage Enhancements**

With the addition of volumes snapshots to OCS Object Storage plus the ability to boot  instances from persistent volumes, customers can now consolidate and aggregate block storage needs on high-performance OCS Block Storage. Snapshots protect data by providing cost-effective backups for OCS Block Storage volumes and simplify the process of launching new instances. Using OCS Block Storage significantly reduces CAPEX and OPEX when building of an elastic cloud.

**OpenStack Grizzly**

OCS 2.5 is built with OpenStack Grizzly, the latest release of OpenStack announced in April. In addition to core OpenStack projects such as Nova, Swift, Cinder, Glance, Horizon and Keystone, OCS now also supports Neutron and Ceilometer compute agent.

**New Certified Hardware Options**

OCS now supports certified hardware from Juniper Networks, Dell and Cisco. The broadening of hardware choices in OCS provides customers with an expanded range of configuration options and price points. Customers can now leverage established relationships with their current hardware vendors when deploying OCS.

“Market momentum clearly signals that a hybrid-first mentality will win in cloud,” said Randy Bias, CEO and co-founder of Cloudscaling. “With OCS 2.5, we’re delivering the most advanced product solution in the space that’s designed explicitly to give customers a production-proven AWS-compatible elastic cloud that’s shipping today.”

“It’s all about completeness and depth of OpenStack support,” said Azmir Mohamed, vice president of product management for Cloudscaling. “Vendors who cherry-pick specific OpenStack projects to incorporate are doing a disservice to customers that want the various OpenStack projects together. That's why we invested heavily in Grizzly for OCS 2.5. No other product has this depth and breadth of OpenStack integration in the marketplace.”

**Next Steps for Cloudscaling and Open Cloud System**

Throughout the fall, Cloudscaling will unveil a series of supporting capabilities to extend and enhance the OCS experience, including new AWS compatibility testing tools, enhanced AWS compatibility for hybrid cloud deployment, support of the Google Compute Engine APIs in OCS, OpenStack training geared toward customers interested in hybrid cloud, expansion of the OCS ecosystem community, and a comprehensive testing environment for OCS customers.

Read more about today’s announcement at the [Cloudscaling blog](http://www.cloudscaling.com/blog/cloud-computing/game-on-ocs-2-5/).

**Learn About AWS-Compatible Hybrid Cloud on OpenStack**

[Register today](http://go.cloudscaling.com/cloudscaling-fall-2013-webinar-series) for Cloudscaling’s fall webinar series. It focuses on designing and building AWS-compatible hybrid clouds with OpenStack. Join us and gain insight into:

  * Key drivers shaping the enterprise shift to hybrid cloud

  * Planning for and building the ultimate hybrid cloud using OpenStack and AWS

  * Best practices and strategies for managing data and apps in a hybrid environment

  * Technical deep dive into powerful cloud storage and networking solutions

**About Cloudscaling**

Cloudscaling is the leader in elastic cloud infrastructure. The company’s core product, Open Cloud System (OCS), is the most advanced OpenStack-powered cloud infrastructure software available. OCS is designed to meet the requirements of next-generation dynamic applications, delivering the agility, performance, and economic benefits of leading cloud providers, but deployable in the customer’s data center and under the IT team’s control. Customers include Ubisoft, Living Social and EVault. Cloudscaling is backed by Trinity Ventures, Juniper Networks and Seagate Technologies. Headquartered in San Francisco, more info at <http://cloudscaling.com>. 

###

Media Contact:

Robert Cathey

[robert@cloudscaling.com](mailto:robert@cloudscaling.com) — 415-871-0509 — @robertcathey  @cloudscaling