---
title: "What is Amazon's Secret for Success and Why is EC2 a Runaway Train?"
link: http://cloudscaling.com/blog/cloud-computing/what-is-amazons-secret-for-success-and-why-is-ec2-a-runaway-train/
author: randybias
description: 
post_id: 2212
created: 2011/10/13 10:57:41
created_gmt: 2011/10/13 17:57:41
comment_status: open
post_name: what-is-amazons-secret-for-success-and-why-is-ec2-a-runaway-train
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
category: cloud-computing
---

# What is Amazon's Secret for Success and Why is EC2 a Runaway Train? 

We can all see it Amazon's continued growth. The 'Other' line in their revenue reports is now the #1 area of growth for Amazon, even above consumer electronics. Their [latest 10-Q](http://investing.businessweek.com/research/stocks/financials/secfilings.asp?ticker=AMZN:US) reported 87% year-over-year growth, well over their consumer electronics business. Per predictions from [myself](/blog/cloud-computing/amazons-ec2-generating-220m-annually), [UBS](http://www.crn.com/news/applications-os/226500204/amazon-cloud-revenue-could-exceed-500-million-in-2010-report.htm), and others, AWS is staying on-track for 100% year-over-year growth, revenues in the 1B range for 2011, and no end in sight to the high flying act. I'll repeat again what I have said in other venues, at this rate, AWS itself will be a 6B business by 2016. If this comes to fruition, AWS will be the biggest infrastructure and hosting business in the world, bar none. It will have achieved that goal in a mere 10 years. For comparison, in 10 years time, Salesforce.com achieved 2B in revenue. You just don't see runaway trains like this very often. So what is the secret for Amazon's succcess? Is it providing on-demand servers for $.10/hr? Being the first mover and market maker? Brand name recognition? Or something else? Perhaps more importantly, why can't anyone replicate this success on this scale? **Cloud Punditry Fails You** The #1 problem in my mind for why folks can't easily understand Amazon's secrets is that they don't want to. The majority of cloud pundits out there work for large enterprise vendors who have a significant investment in muddying the waters. For the longest time cloud computing was identified primarily as an outsourcing play and relegated to the 'on-demand virtual servers' bucket. Now, there is a broad understanding that we're in the midst of a fundamentally transformative and disruptive shift. The problem with disruptions is that the incumbents lose and when the majority of cloud pundits are embedded marketeers and technologists from those same incumbents, we have a recipe for cloud-y soup. **Amazon's Secret(s)** The reality is that there are a number of secrets that Amazon has, but probably only one that matters. We can certainly point to their development velocity and ability to build great teams. We could also point to their innovative technology deployments, such as the Simple Storage Service (S3). Being a first mover and market maker matters, but there were businesses before them engaged in "utility computing" before it was cool. Is it just timing? Or a combination of timing and product/market fit? All of these items matter, but probably the number one reason for Amazon's success isn't what they let you do, but what they don't let you do. `<blink />` .... Say what? Amazon's #1 secret to acquiring and retaining customers is simplicity and reduction of choice. This is also the single hardest thing to replicate from the AWS business model. **Cloud Readiness ... Wasn't** Prior to AWS the notion of 'cloud ready' applications did not exist. Amazon inadvertently cracked open the door to a [new way of thinking about applications](http://cloudscaling.com/blog/cloud-computing/cloud-innovators-netflix-strategy-reflects-google-philosophy) by being self-serving. Put simply, AWS reduced choice by simplifying the network model, pushing onto the customer responsibility for fault tolerance (e.g. local storage of virtual servers is not persistent and neither are the servers themselves), and forcing the use of automation for applications to be scalable and manageable. The end result is what we now think of as [cloud-ready applications](http://cloudscaling.com/blog/cloud-computing/cloud-philosophy-an-interview-with-randy-bias). Examples include Netflix, Animoto, Zynga, and many others. By turning the application infrastructure management problem into one that could be driven programmatically, educating developers on this new model, and then providing a place where developers could have "as much as you can eat" on demand, they effectively changed the game for the next generation of applications. Application developers now understand the value of building their application to fit a particular infrastructure environment, rather than requiring a specific infrastructure environment to prop up their application's shortcomings. **The Buyer Has Changed In Multiple Ways** So, just as with Salesforce.com and SaaS, the buyer is shifting from centralized IT departments to the application developer. We've all long known this, but I think what has confused many of the incumbents is that there is a seeming paradox here. Within the typical enterprise datacenter, developers have long been one of the drivers for the ongoing and painful "silo-ization" of enterprise applications. New applications enter the datacenter and custom infrastructure is provided per 'requirements' from the application developer. This has been a pattern for 25+ years which is now becoming an [anti-pattern](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-pattern). Now, the application developer has the choice: fit the infrastructure to the app or fit the app to the infrastructure (aka 'cloud-readiness'). Put another way: push the risk to the centralized IT department and manage them indirectly with 'requirements' or accept the risk onto the application and manage it's infrastructure directly and programmatically. All application developers want to be in control of their apps and their destiny. Combine this with the structural problems inherent in most centralized IT departments fulfillment and delivery capabilities and the choice seems clear: get it done now, for cheap, under my own control or push the risks out to a group I don't control or manage with unknown delivery dates and costs. Developers, in droves, from all kinds of businesses, have voted with their pocket books and Amazon EC2 is a runaway train because of it. **Amazon's Secret Explained** To some, it seems like Amazon has missed a clear opportunity: mimicking the enterprise datacenter.

> Bad Amazon, don't you understand that what developers really want in a public cloud is exactly what they have in their own datacenters today?

## Comments

**[jeff schneider](#3077 "2011-10-13 16:08:00"):** Randy, You absolutely nailed it. The combinatorial problem created by platform and infrastructure vendors has gotten out of hand. Simple is hard; it requires discipline.  We've seen lots little projects turn big (CORBA, J2EE, etc.). As a follow-up, it would be interesting to get your view on how OpenStack can address this threat. My concern has been that the large number of vendors participating is both a blessing and a curse. As you know, many of them will come to the table with a legacy agenda that involves proliferating their existing stacks. Will the new consortium be divided by the revenue agendas of the member companies (I hope not, but would love to hear what you think).  Jeff

**[randybias](#3078 "2011-10-13 18:25:00"):** Jeff, Astute observation on your part. There is definitely a danger that the large vendors crowding into the OpenStack space will take it in the wrong direction. To be honest, I see it as the mission of the more nimble startups to keep us on track. Certainly Cloudscaling has plans here. If we can't deliver on the promise of cloud computing, then we should all go home. :) Best, \--Randy

**[Guest](#3080 "2011-10-14 05:36:00"):** The new OpenStack foundation should help insure it stays open and avoid any single org from undue influence

**[Jeremy Jarvis](#3081 "2011-10-14 06:35:00"):** Nice one Randy. "...AWS reduced choice by simplifying the network model, pushing onto the customer responsibility for fault tolerance..." - amazed how little I hear this. To me, this is the essence of IaaS, and is why so much of what is sold as IaaS to date is flawed. You can't push the responsibility for fault tolerance to the customer unless you give them the ability to do it: multiple zones, configurable network tools etc.

**[Joseph Glanville](#3082 "2011-10-14 06:56:00"):** The problem isn't a single source however. Most of the vendoes involved in OpenStack have differing opinions on where it should be headed and almost all of these are the wrong way (in my opinion). Excelent post Randy, couldn't agree more.

**[Wayne Wilson](#3083 "2011-10-14 07:36:00"):** Randy, great post.  Sum's up a lot of what I take away from the work of Clayton Christensen.  Indeed, the smaller start ups are where the action has to be.  I think that is the great wrinkle that Amazon delivered, allowing start ups to run with the innovation, rather than do it themselves.

**[Eamon Turing](#3084 "2011-10-16 10:01:00"):** I really think this is one of the key findings of amazon. Customer doesn't ask about HA within amazon infra. He knows that provide HA depends on the application and the final way to deliver it. Some telcos try to launch the same or similar services that amazon but their customer keep on asking about HA and comparing costs with amazon. Stupid way of thinking!

**[Brian McCallion](#3114 "2011-12-20 14:42:00"):** Nice article. I think emphasizing that eliminating choices and forcing developers to build real world applications rather than hothouse flowers is a keen insight.

**[Jeff Sussna](#3364 "2012-05-20 10:29:00"):** Amazon didn't just force a deployment pattern by reducing choice. They also enabled the adoption of that pattern by providing powerful yet easy-to-use capabilities such as the ability to load balance and move computation and data across availability zones.

**[randybias](#3365 "2012-05-20 10:47:00"):** Absolutely.

