---
author: Randy Bias
comments: true
date: 2011-03-03 02:22:35+00:00
layout: post
slug: cloud-connect-2011-2
title: Cloud Connect 2011
wordpress_id: 1673
old_categories:
- Cloud Computing
- Company
- Events
tags:
- CloudConnect
---

The annual [Cloud Connect](http://www.cloudconnectevent.com/) conference is next week (March 7-10). It’s quickly become one of the most well-produced events in our industry, and we’re honored to participate. In fact, I consider Cloud Connect to be **the** thought leadership event for cloud computing.

The 2011 event is the most ambitious yet in the diversity of topics and sheer size. Alistair Croll’s team has put together an excellent series of sessions and participants.

Four folks from our leadership team are participating in 12 panels plus a keynote address this year:



	
  * Randy Bias, Co-Founder & CTO

	
  * Andrew Shafer, Vice President of Engineering

	
  * Francesco Paola, Vice President, Client and Partner Services

	
  * Paul Guth, Vice President, Technical Operations


Below is a quick lineup of where we’re speaking and when. Come see us in Santa Clara at the Convention Center, and bring the tough questions: you know we like a good debate!

**Monday, March 7, 2011**


Cloudy Operations
Grand Ballroom E -- 8:59 - 4:30
Andrew Shafer




Cloud Performance Summit: Tools and Techniques for Performance Optimization
Grand Ballroom H -- 1:15 - 4:30
Paul Guth


**Tuesday, March 8, 2011
**


Keynote
Theater -- 9:45 - 9:55
Randy Bias




Open Source Built the Web - Now It’s Helping to Build the Cloud
Grand Ballroom G -- 2:30 - 3:30
Randy Bias




How Does ROI Drive Architecture?
Grand Ballroom E -- 3:45 - 4:30
Randy Bias




Platforms & Ecosystems: Birds of a Feather (BOF)
Grand Ballroom H -- 6:00 - 7:30
Andrew Shafer


**Wednesday, March 9, 2011**


Private Cloud Conference
Virtualization on Demand vs. Private Cloud -- Room 203
11:15 - 12:15
Randy Bias




Real Barriers and Solutions to Implementing Private Cloud
Room 203 -- 1:15 - 2:15
Randy Bias and Francesco Paola




Implementing Private Cloud: Open Source vs Everyone Else
Room 203 -- 2:30 - 3:30
Randy Bias




Hybrid Cloud Computing: Final Answer or Transitory Architecture?
Room 203 -- 3:45 - 4:30
Randy Bias


**Thursday, March 10, 2011
**


Moving from “Dev vs. Ops” to “DevOps”
Grand Ballroom E -- 8:15 - 9:15
Andrew Shafer and Paul Guth




Performance and Monitoring
Grand Ballroom G -- 9:30 - 10:30
Randy Bias




Ask the Experts: The DevOps Panel
Grand Ballroom E -- 10:45 - 11:45
Andrew Shafer and Paul Guth


If you’ve not [registered](http://www.cloudconnectevent.com/registration/) yet, do it today. We’ll see you in Santa Clara.
