---
title: 'Cloud Philosophy: An Interview with Randy Bias'
link: http://cloudscaling.com/blog/cloud-computing/cloud-philosophy-an-interview-with-randy-bias/
author: Randy Bias
description: 
post_id: 1887
created: 2011/05/10 08:30:48
created_gmt: 2011/05/10 15:30:48
comment_status: open
post_name: cloud-philosophy-an-interview-with-randy-bias
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
category: cloud-computing
---

<!--I recently did an interview with Michael Coté of Redmonk. We've posted a PDF transcript <LINK> of the audio interview on our website. It's a lengthy conversation, so we thought we'd post a text version here, with key parts excerpted. Enjoy!-->

# Cloud Philosophy: An Interview with Randy Bias

I recently did a [podcast interview](http://www.redmonk.com/cote/2011/04/04/there-is-no-half-steppin-in-cloud-guest-randy-bias-of-cloudscaling-it-management-and-cloud-podcast-087/) with Michael Coté of Redmonk. We've posted a [PDF transcript](/pdf/CRN-20-Cool-Cloud-Infrastructure-Vendors.pdf) on our website. It's a lengthy conversation, so we thought we'd post a text version here, with key comments underlined and bolded. It's an hour long interview, but with a lot of high quality content, so it's worth your time. Enjoy! 

> **Michael Coté:** Well, hello everybody! It's a special edition of the IT Management & Cloud Podcast. This week it's just me, Michael Coté, at RedMonk and I have got a guest on to kind of just go over some exciting, sort of, real cloud stuff. I guess you could call it the real cloud on the ground kind of business, not just the theoretic stuff up in the sky. So with that, you want to introduce yourself guest? **Randy Bias:** Hi! I am Randy Bias, the CTO and Co-Founder of Cloudscaling. **Michael Coté:** And if I remember recently you were the CEO for quite some time. And so I imagine -- I always -- I have been covering tech business long enough that when I see a Founder move from [being] CEO, it's usually a tremendous relief. You can, sort of, -- you can focus on the more technical things and, sort of, operational stuff rather than running around unclogging toilets and stuff that startup CEOs are always doing. **Randy Bias:** It certainly was for me. I think I was a great Founding CEO, but I was quickly getting to the point where I was not really doing any of my CEO duties and there was a clear gap. And so I was happy to stop doing that 10% of the times -- a 10% CEO is almost worse than no CEO. **Michael Coté:** Exactly, yeah, sort of, things pile up at the best case and at worst you start to just damage things. So it's always a nice sign of maturity like I was saying. So for people who don't know Cloudscaling and haven't heard of you guys, you want to give us an overview of what it is you guys do? **Randy Bias:** So Cloudscaling is a bunch of veterans who worked on Amazon Web Services, GoGrid, Engine Yard, and several other either platform or infrastructure clouds, who got together and we see ourselves as the real deal implementers for clouds at scale. So we have got several engagements that are well publicized, including bringing up both private and public clouds for Korea Telecom and then also bringing the first OpenStack storage cloud to market after the Rackspace Cloud Files. **Michael Coté:** So how long have you guys been around for? **Randy Bias:** Cloudscaling in this instantiation has really been around for about a year. So the current business model and team has been around for about a year, and in that time there is really just the two co-founders almost a year ago, and now we are 25, going on 30, and we will probably double again by the end of the year. So we have been under very rapid growth. **Michael Coté:** And would you characterize yourself as a services organization largely or is there a product that you have? **Randy Bias:** We are getting to the area where like I have to be careful about what I share. I will simply say this. We are currently a services organization. We have a new CEO who is not a services person. He has a history and track record of building product. And if I were looking at the organization from the outside I would think that, that was a clear signal. But it's for other people to decide. **Michael Coté:** That's right. Everyone can cut open the bird and read the guts for the future on their own, right? They can do that on their own. The old osprey if I remember. Yeah. So I mean, you guys have like -- I have been kind of knowing a few, like Andrew Shafer who is, if I recall, the VP of Engineering, like, having spoken with him while he has been working there. I mean, you guys have -- as a sort of credit to your name, rapidly scaled up staffing wise. I mean, there has been kind of phenomenal growth that you guys have been through. **Randy Bias:** Yeah. We have been -- we have still been tremendously lucky. We have got a lot of A-players like Andrew Shafer who have come on board, who have got a ton of domain knowledge to help us out. We also recently acquired a gentleman by the name of Zed Shaw, who is rather infamous in both the Ruby and Python communities. He is awesome, absolutely awesome. We have got a bunch of the backend engineers from GoGrid who are really great. We just had one Amazon Web Services Product Manager start with us. We have got a really all-star cast of folks who have just got a ton of experience in this area. Like I said, our forte has really been on the implementation side. We think of ourselves as cloud builders and operators who have practical experience. And sort of when you look out there in the ecosystem of folks who are offering product or services today, there is actually very few people who can make that claim, so pretty proud of that. **Michael Coté:** So when you guys -- when you and sort of the other initial clutch of people started out and you were, kind of, looking at the cloud opportunity, how did you end up, kind of, dividing [the market] into, kind of, [what companies were] ready to do cloud stuff, if you will? I mean, you, kind of, had to do sort of a market study, if you will, and kind of figure out: okay, these are the people who actually can build like full scale, and I am putting this in air quote, “real clouds.” And I am curious like how you kind of sorted that out initially and how that’s been evolving over time? **Randy Bias:** Man, that’s a really good question actually. So the history of the business is funny, because it really -- I have been working on this cloud stuff in one way or another since sort of late 2006 when I did my first kind of cloud startup, which didn’t go anywhere, but was sort of a competitor to RightScale, sort of a Cloud Application Management Framework for originally both Amazon Web Services and then eventually GoGrid, and that was one of the first cloud management platforms I had seen. In fact, RightScale wasn’t even launched at the time that I started working on it. And during that whole time, from late 2006 till now, I have been blogging about this and thinking about it and I spent some time at GoGrid as a VP, Technology Strategy, where I was trying to help them with product direction and vision. And when I left there and I formed Cloudscaling in the current incarnation, a couple of things were interesting for me. The first was that, the blog had really attracted a lot of readers. And the second was that I felt that I had a chance to step back from, kind of, what people were talking about and try to assess what I felt was happening from a big picture point of view and then try to build a business model towards that, which is a little bit different than most folks who I think have a product or a service that they are offering already and then they are trying to see how it can fit into cloud computing. **Michael Coté:** Yeah, the so-called “cloud washing,” if you will, in the worst case. **Randy Bias:** Right. So I started doing consulting and strategy and architecture engagements with, like, large enterprise companies. I worked with VMware on the vCloud API, and I worked with Kaiser Permanente on some of their internal private cloud stuff and a handful of other large enterprises. It seemed to me like the enterprises were missing something, and I kept coming back and noticing that what Amazon, and to some degree Google, and some of the large Internet properties was doing was just building a fundamentally different kind of information technology.