---
title: 'An Appliance Does Not Make Your Software Architecture AWS Compatible'
link: http://cloudscaling.com/blog/cloud-computing/citrix-blows-off-steam-defends-poor-marketing/
author: Randy Bias
description: 
post_id: 3858
created: 2012/04/09 11:49:59
created_gmt: 2012/04/09 18:49:59
comment_status: open
post_name: citrix-blows-off-steam-defends-poor-marketing
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
category: cloud-computing
---

# An Appliance Does Not Make Your Software Architecture AWS Compatible

On Saturday morning, an article I wrote went out on GigaOm entitled "[True or false: Citrix is more compatible with AWS](http://gigaom.com/2012/04/07/true-or-false-citrix-is-more-compatible-with-aws/)."  Reactions were generally very positive, with only a a small minority reaction, mostly from Citrix or Citrix fans. Some of those negative reactions deserve a response that is greater than 140 characters in length. The basic premise of the article was that Citrix was making pretty outlandish claims about being the only one who "even comes close" to "meeting [the] requirements]" for "AWS-style architecture", "proven at scale in real production clouds", and is "compatible with the Amazon architecture." These are big claims on Citrix's part and an attempt to set themselves apart from everyone else primarily on the strength of their Amazon compatibility.  To let such claims go unanswered, when they are formed on such a weak basis, is not possible. **The Article & It's Reception** There isn't much reason to retread my article on GigaOm.  It speaks for itself.  I focused not on CloudStack vs. OpenStack, but endeavored to talk about the claims around AWS compatibility and Amazon-style architecture. Tweets were exchanged with the chief cloud architect from Citrix and Christian Reilly, one of their big customers, proponents, and briefly, an employee of Cloud.com/Citrix.  The result was that Citrix made it clear that AWS compatibility *is* possible with CloudStack 3.0, since February 2012, **if** you buy a Citrix NetScaler. _In other words, on an open source project to open source project comparison, CloudStack has no more additional AWS network compatibility than does OpenStack._ Here's what I said in the GigaOm article[1]: 

>  The default AWS networking is a flat layer-3 network, which CloudStack can support, but typically does not. Much of their value-added functionality (e.g. load balancing, network area translation) disappears when using flat networking. Default CloudStack deployments aren’t network compatible with AWS.

My stance was clear in the original and stays the same.  If you download CloudStack, turn it on in flat network mode, like Amazon networking, you lose a bunch of CloudStack's purported value add and are not any more compatible with AWS networking than OpenStack.  Citrix stance is simple: buy a NetScaler to fix this.

**"Designed From the Ground Up"** Here's the CloudStack 3.0 [release notes](http://download.cloud.com/releases/3.0.0/CloudStack3.0.0ReleaseNotes.pdf) declaring support for the Citrix NetScaler.  CloudStack 3.0 (Acton) was [released](http://cloudstack.org/blog/117-cloudstack-acton-released.html) on February 28th, 2012.  So native support of their "designed from the ground up for AWS compatibility" for ELB, Elastic IP, and NAT in flat networking mode (Amazon's default) is now 2 months old.  This support is provided by purchasing a Citrix hardware appliance, which is the only load balancer currently supported by CloudStack today.

**Citrix Isn't More Designed to be AWS Compatible Than Anyone Else** I called Citrix out on some outrageous marketing claims that are minimally supported by the evidence.  CloudStack was not designed from the ground up to be AWS compatible or in the Amazon architectural model.  Nor is it significantly ahead  of projects like Eucalyptus or OpenStack in terms of [AWS API features supported](http://wiki.openstack.org/Nova/APIFeatureComparison).

This isn't about OpenStack vs. CloudStack though some are trying to make it that.  This isn't about whether CloudStack is more open source than OpenStack or vice versa.  It's about these marketing claims.

It comes down to this: You can build an Amazon-style and possibly even somewhat AWS compatible cloud using CloudStack **IF** you also buy the Citrix NetScaler.  The same can also be said of OpenStack and possibly even Eucalyptus with a modest amount of integration work.

Adding integration to hardware projects in the last two months does not make true the claims of CloudStack software being "designed from the ground up" to be the "only one who comes close" to AWS compatibility.

* * *

[1] This is backed up when you read the CloudStack 3.0 [Advanced Installation Guide](http://download.cloud.com/releases/3.0.0/CloudStack3.0InstallGuide.pdf), which shows that you must purchase a 'physical' device to get NAT, ELB, Elastic IP, and firewall capabilities.

## Comments

**[Pete Downing](#3352 "2012-04-10 06:41:00"):** Randy, As you probably know... with a bold blog post like you have done, you will get some negative response.  Some may be intelligent, some biased and some emotional.  That aside, you do raise a very give question in the world of cloud... how much is too much marketing?  Seriously! Essentailly you are saying Citrix is over-marketing it's claims with CloudStack.  Let's face it... isn't everyone over-marketing themselves in this wide open market called "cloud".  Heck, it is even worse in the "open" arena because let's face it... companies who are consuming OpenStack and building a product have a very very small customer base or no customers.  You have to over-market yourself to survive or hope that you get acquired!   Net, net... couldn't someone turn the tables on OpenStack and claim that is a bunch of marketing fluff and essentially write the same toned blog post you did? Respectfully I think your effort to expose marketing claims by Citrix backfired!  When I read your blog on GigaOm, I read it as an attack on CloudStack and a ploy to bring attention to CloudScaling... A.K.A. marketing.  Let's face it... you guys have a new strategy with products and you want to ensure they are successful, right!!?? Just my three cents.   Pete Disclaimer: I used to be an employee of Citrix Systems and I am now an employee of BMC Software. Anything I write is my own words and does not represent any company I am employed by.

**[randybias](#3353 "2012-04-10 10:05:00"):** Pete,   Thanks for the very thoughtful comment.  I agree with most of your thinking here.  I think where it falls down is when I look at the general responses I have seen.  Just now I had yet another person tell me they thought the posting was right on and in their experience with CloudStack highly accurate, particularly the issues with the router VMs.  The positive responses so far are much higher than the negative responses by at least 20:1.  I think many folks view my article less as an article and more as some counter-claims.   I think it's worth looking at this for what it is:  claim vs. counter-claim.  I don't see that as an attack.  Yes, it's marketing, but the reality is that companies who are competing are going to spend time and resources attempting to debunk each other's claims while adding veracity to their own.  In that regard, it's all fair game.  I've been very clear, providing details, facts, and opinion related to those details and facts.  Where are the Citrix counter-claims?   How does that phrase go again?  There are lies, damn lies, and marketing?  It will be up to people interpreting the messages to determine what they believe.  I've very clearly provided a ton of detailed information about Citrix marketing claims that exposes the problems with their claims.  I recommend they counter by providing detailed information about how CloudStack does meet their claims; however, this will not happen because their claims are unjustified.   If Citrix had made their claims differently, like "CloudStack has significantly more years of field deployments and development" it would be hard to argue with them.  Instead, Citrix chose a course that grossly over-inflates their capabilities vis a vis AWS compatibility and architectural purity. There are a lot of great, accurate marketing claims that CloudStack could make, but many of the ones they did make, particularly those around Amazon are just far too easy to take apart.   I see this as a major marketing fail on Citrix's part.  They are making my job very easy.

**[Pete Downing](#3354 "2012-04-10 10:45:00"):** Randy, Appreciate your insight!  I think your dead-on with your call for Citrix to counter claim... seems like a sensible idea.   Interestingtake from Citrix's blog: “It’sAll About Open”: http://blogs.citrix.com/2012/04/05/it%E2%80%99s-all-about-open/ What is interesting here is they claim they will still contribute to OpenStack.  Where I am going with this and to your theme on marketing... Net result here, Citrix has seemingly failed to execute on announcements of the same caliber…  see these blog posts concerning OpenStack just over a year ago: http://blogs.citrix.com/2011/02/03/openstacks-baby-bexar/ http://blogs.citrix.com/2011/02/04/when-a-tree-falls/ http://blogs.citrix.com/2010/08/30/the-cloud-is-open-see-how-it-stacks-up/ http://blogs.citrix.com/2010/08/29/opencloud-a-platform-for-innovation/ Oh yeah and here is the official PR announcement: http://www.citrix.com/English/NE/news/news.asp?newsID=2311980 Net, net… Citrix is good at announcing things!  I want Citrix to be successful here and know they can be.  But to your point... would love to see a well thought out counter claim.   On your GigaOm blog, I asked another question as well...  To me, it seems to me you’d want to hold a “friend” like Citrix closer, why the sudden shift? I mean I know you guys [CloudScaling] have a shifted in strategy but wouldn't you want to spend time targeting guys like Piston Computing, Nimbula, Nebula and Morph Labs who are your primary competition in the OpenStack space?  If I recall, Cloud.com plus CloudScaling was a pretty powerful combination!  Why not Citrix and CloudScaling?  If I was CloudScaling, I would counter their claim of not backing off supporting OpenStack (as stated in the blog post above) to see where they are really going in regards to OpenStack.  CRN seems to think they are abandoning OpenStack:  http://www.crn.com/news/cloud/232800325/citrix-shakes-up-cloud-with-split-from-openstack.htm?pgno=1 Again, the above referenced blog says otherwise... Your take aside from your other blog on this topic ("Citrix Joins Apache and Contributes CloudStack: Bold Move or Brash Decision?")?  Thanks! Pete Disclaimer: I used to be an employee of Citrix Systems and I am now an employee of BMC Software. Anything I write is my own words and opinions and does not represent any company I am currently employed by.

**[chiradeep](#3355 "2012-04-10 11:31:00"):** Heh, I am not the Citrix Chief Cloud Architect (that title does not exist). Also, my tweets are my own and not Citrix's.  I am mostly a code monkey very interested in delivering solutions that work for customers. Regarding Netscaler, it isn't that hard to orchestrate virtual appliances in CloudStack. In fact, I wrote the EIP and ELB features using virtual appliances (http://goo.gl/qU5dl) last year, but we didn't merge it in since customers wanted Netscaler. You can just as easily write an adapter to use F5 BigIP instead of Netscaler. Writing new networking features in CloudStack is easy -- clean abstractions, well defined integration points and fantastic extensibility. You should try it some time.

**[randybias](#3356 "2012-04-10 15:43:00"):** Thanks Chiradeep. We are committed to OpenStack write now. Maybe in another role.

**[Guest](#3367 "2012-06-12 14:33:00"):** In my experience cloudstack makes some pretty terrible design choices, like putting configurations into the DB instead of where they belong (configuration files). Why should I find myself at a mysql prompt every time I need to change something they haven't anticipated? How do I automate deployments in any sane fashion? Seems like Citrix has slept on the devops field that has arisen in the past couple of years. I also agree that the network is crippled unless you buy a netscaler. The network also requires management VMs to live on the same subnet as physical hosts, whereas I'd argue for a clean design in which physical hosts live in a separate subnet from the cloudstack system VMs.

